new tutorial for find the easy pass of hackthebox challenges. (#63)
rizinorg/book: src/crackmes/hackthebox/find-the-easy-pass/find-the-validation-routine.md

# Find the validation routine

> The "Wrong Password!" string is located at 0x00454200 in the CODE section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "Wrong Password!" string is located at `0x00454200` in the CODE section.
```

Author: It's fixed

> The "Wrong Password!" string is located at 0x00454200 in the CODE section.

Reviewer 2: i think you should move the comment below up here on how to find that string

Author: I hope that's ok with last changes ?

In this step, we wish to find the password, our approach will be to debug
the program based on the information already collected.

```bash
Spawned new process with pid 8556, tid = 8576
= attach 8556 8576
bin.baddr 0x00400000
Using 0x400000
asm.bits 32
```

> ```bash
> [0x7ffeaa1c2630]> iz~Wrong
> [0x7ffeaa1c2630]> izz~Wrong
> 5483 0x00053600 0x00454200 15  16   CODE    ascii   Wrong Password!
> ```
> ***rizin tips:*** We know where is located the "Wrong Password!" at
> 0x00454200 in the CODE section.
> To do the same research, we can use the `iz` and `izz`

> the tilde filtering the output with "Wrong"
> 
> go to 0x00454200

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`~` is Rizin's built-in `grep` command which you can use to filter the output.
Here, we've searched for the word "Wrong" in the strings of the data section.

Seeking to `0x00454200`- the location of the string:
```

Author: I applied your suggestions.

```bash
[0x7ffeaa1c2630]> s 0x00454200

[0x00454200]> aaaa
```

We will ask rizin to analyze the program with `aaa`

```bash
[0x00454200]> aaaa
[x] Analyze all flags starting with sym. and entry0 (aa)
[Warning: Invalid range. Use different search.in=? or analysis.in=dbg.maps.x
Warning: Invalid range. Use different search.in=? or analysis.in=dbg.maps.x
[x] Analyze function calls (aac)
[x] Analyze len bytes of instructions for references (aar)
[x] Check for classes
[TOFIX: aaft can't run in debugger mode.ions (aaft)
[x] Type matching analysis for all functions (aaft)
[x] Propagate noreturn information
[x] Use -AA or aaaa to perform additional experimental analysis.
[Warning: Invalid range. Use different search.in=? or analysis.in=dbg.maps.x
[x] Finding function preludes
[x] Enable constraint types analysis for variables
```

```bash
[0x00454200]> V
```

> ***rizin tips:*** The `V` command triggers the visual mode

![find-the-validation-routine-wrong-password](./img/find-the-validation_routine-00.png)

Press `p` command to switch on the code view

![find-the-validation-routine-wrong-password-code-view](./img/find-the-validation_routine-01.png)

> Press `x` to display the cross references

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Press `x` to display the cross-references
```

Author: I've fixed

# Find the validation routine

> 
> The "Wrong Password!" string is located at `0x00454200` in the CODE section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The string "Wrong Password!" is located at `0x00454200` in the CODE section.
```

In this step, we wish to find the password, our approach will be to debug
the program based on the information already collected.

```bash
Spawned new process with pid 8556, tid = 8576
= attach 8556 8576
bin.baddr 0x00400000
Using 0x400000
asm.bits 32
```

> ```bash
> [0x7ffeaa1c2630]> iz~Wrong
> [0x7ffeaa1c2630]> izz~Wrong
> 5483 0x00053600 0x00454200 15  16   CODE    ascii   Wrong Password!
> ```
> ***rizin tips:*** We know where is located the "Wrong Password!" at
> `0x00454200` in the CODE section.
> To do the same research, we can use the `iz` and `izz`

`~` is Rizin's built-in `grep` command which you can use to filter the
output.
Here, we've searched for the word "Wrong" in the strings of the data
section.

Seeking to `0x00454200`- the location of the string:

```bash
[0x7ffeaa1c2630]> s 0x00454200

[0x00454200]> aaaa
```

> We will ask rizin to analyze the program with `aaa`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will ask Rizin to analyze the program with `aaa`.
```

[x] Check for classes
[TOFIX: aaft can't run in debugger mode.ions (aaft)
[x] Type matching analysis for all functions (aaft)
[x] Propagate noreturn information
[x] Use -AA or aaaa to perform additional experimental analysis.
[Warning: Invalid range. Use different search.in=? or analysis.in=dbg.maps.x
[x] Finding function preludes
[x] Enable constraint types analysis for variables
```

```bash
[0x00454200]> V
```

> ***rizin tips:*** The `V` command triggers the visual mode.

![find-the-validation-routine-wrong-password](./img/find-the-validation_routine-00.png)

Press `p` command to switch on the code view.

![find-the-validation-routine-wrong-password-code-view](./img/find-the-validation_routine-01.png)

Press `x` to display the cross-references.

![find-the-validation-routine-wrong-password-xref](./img/find-the-validation_routine-02.png)

Press `enter` or `return` to jump of this reference.

![find-the-validation-routine-wrong-password-jump-to-xref](./img/find-the-validation_routine-03.png)

Rizin allows you to have a graph view by pressing the `space bar`.

![find-the-validation-routine-wrong-password-graph-view-not-work](./img/find-the-validation_routine-04.png)

> For the graph view to work here, rizin needs a function to be analyzed,
> we will help him by creating it from the beginning of the function
> where the string "Wrong Password!".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the graph view to work here, Rizin needs the function to be analyzed.
We will help by creating it from the beginning of the function
where the string "Wrong Password!" is located.
```

Scroll up to the address `0x00454078`.

![find-the-validation-routine-wrong-password-prologue-function](./img/find-the-validation_routine-05.png)

Press `d` and `f` to analyze the function.

![find-the-validation-routine-wrong-password-analyze-function](./img/find-the-validation_routine-06.png)

Now if you press the `space bar` the graph will be displayed.

![find-the-validation-routine-wrong-password-graph-view](./img/find-the-validation_routine-07.png)

> ***rizin tips:*** to move around of graph, you can use the same keys like Vim:
> `h`, `j`, `k`, `l`.

![find-the-validation-routine-wrong-password-interesting-code](./img/find-the-validation_routine-08.png)

By deduction, the address `0x00427a30` is the function which popup the messagebox.

> 
> The right node, print the "Wrong Password!", the left one, probably print the congratulations message.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The right node, print the "Wrong Password!", the left one, probably prints the congratulations message.

```

> When to the address `0x00404628` is the validation function because it
> followed by a conditionnal test that leads either "Wrong Password!" message
> or congratulation message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At `0x00404628` is what which looks like a validation function because it is
followed by a conditional test that either leads to the "Wrong Password!" message
or the congratulation message.
```
